(beeping)
(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Let's say that you valiantly did
a git reset with the hard flag and then panic strikes.
You realize that you didn't mean to do that.
Is there a way to undo a hard reset?
I'll give you a couple of seconds to think about
how you would do something like this.
(beeping)
(upbeat music)
Now have no fear, advanced users of git know
that there is another way to get out of a hard reset.
So let's take a look at our git log.
We'll do a git log one line here.
And you'll see that my log
shows a number of different commits,
and let's just find a commit that is way farther back
and we'll do a hard reset here.
So let's clear this out, and we'll do a git reset,
and the hard flag will let us rewind
to this particular commit.
So now we're back somewhere in our history,
and if I do another git log, one line here,
you'll see that my earlier history is now gone.
So I used to think that there is no way
of getting out of this or no way to retrieving
like a previous history, but in reality,
there is a pretty simple way.
There's another secret log that advanced users know about
that will track all of your changes,
even the ones that you've seemingly messed up
by doing a hard reset.
So that command is call git reflog,
some people pronounce it ref log,
and you could see that I've been doing this a little bit
or I've been doing this for a while.
So you could see that I have
all of these resets that I'm doing
and all kinds of other things.
So it's like a much deeper log
that takes into account
anything that you've been doing for a while.
So if I want to, I can just find another previous commit,
like say this one right here,
where I had upgraded things to Bootstrap version five,
and then let's go ahead and q out of this,
so we'll hit the q key.
I like to clear things out.
And then we can do a git reset hard and go to that commit.
And now we get everything back.
If I do a get log, I'll see all of the previous commits
that I thought I deleted are all sitting there
just like they would before,
and I was able to undo that pretty easily,
but it's one of those features
that I think only advanced users have ever even heard of.
It can be quite a lifesaver
when you've done things that you think are permanent,
but are still stored in that log.
It's also a good reason to commit as much as possible
because even if you commit, even if you rebase,
the reflog or the ref log
will be there for you to go back to.